---
title: May 31, 2023
id: 20230531
description: Show-and-tell, and discussion how to best do these calls.
---

Draft agenda:

- Show-and-tell, 5 min each. Whoever has something to show (working code, test, documentation)
  that is likely of interest to other Fediverse developers and not broadly known yet.

- Discussion of best agenda for regular network calls.

- Open discussion.

Some of the attendees (add yourself with name, project affiliation/role, Fediverse handle) --
entirely optional

- Bob Wyman `@bobwyman@mastodon.social`

- Ryan Barrett `@snarfed.org@snarfed.org`

- Jeremiah Lee `@Jeremiah@alpaca.gold`

- narF `@narF@mstdn.fr` (i work in video games)

- Johannes Ernst `@j12t@social.coop`

Backchannel: let's simply use General on https://matrix.to/#/#fediverse-developer-network:matrix.org

Notes (previous call's notes are at https://fedidevs.org/notes/20230410 )

- Let's do introductions on the Matrix Intro channel, part of the Fediverse Developer Network
  room, linked from https://fedidevs.org/

  - The admin/mods of the Matrix Space could pin the important rooms (channels) as
    "recommended" to give them more visibility in the Space.

  - New visitors should be directed to the Space (instead of a specific room) using this
    link: https://matrix.to/#/#fediverse-developer-network:matrix.org

- Tim Bray's high throughput filtering library, posts:

  - https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/202x/2022/09/02/Hello-Ruler

  - https://github.com/timbray/quamina

- Bob: working on "prospective search" -- discussion of Fediverse applications

- Johannes: generating single markdown page with the Webfinger file from various
  representative fediverse apps, second single markdown page with actor files

  - Feedback: generally useful, should be on the website

- Ryan: proposal for how to translate identity and mechanics between protocols: AP,
  IndieWeb, Bluesky, Nostr: https://fed.brid.gy/docs#translate

  - Feedback is welcome! Comment here or here

- Jeremiah requested JSON-LD help regarding an idea for extending the Actor and Activity
  object. Bob pointed to [JSON-LD.org](https://json-ld.org) playground for validating.

- Check out the [FEP process](https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/c/standards/fep/54)
  [and repo](https://codeberg.org/fediverse/fep)!

- Role of this meeting in the future?

  - W3C planning to restart monthly meetings

  - Jeremiah: keep it as a meetup for fediverse developers to share progress/pains/requests
    for help
  - Ben: helpful to create trust with other developers, easier to discuss wild ideas via
    a/v chat than writing sometimes

  - Bob: What's the best programming language to put example code in for fediverse
    developers?

    - Jeremiah: curious to know what the language spread is among server implementations

    - Bob asked, in jest, about the Bliss programming language. No one had heard of it.
      https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/spe.470

Future meetings:

- about once a month, "between" SWICG meetings

- Structure: brief (like today, 5-min) updates / requests for help from developers: hear
  what other people are working on, struggling with, ...

- Encouraged to tell up-front what question/update you want to share, so people have an
  idea up-front what the content of the meeting will be.
